Hello everyone and welcome to lecture on bar plot's bar plots are going to allow us to show a count
when we're actually doing with categorical data instead of continuous data.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and see how we can create these bar plots with cheesy plot too
.
All right so here I am in our studio and I've started out by saying library Jeez you plot two.
And I went ahead and assigned DF MPG data frame that comes with G-G plus two.
If we go ahead and take a look at MPG by saying head mpg here we'll see we have some manufactured data
some model data some displacement and engine data year data cylinder etc..
So let's go ahead and try to create a bar plot that categorizes the class of vehicle versus just the
count of how many times it occurs.
So for histogram we wanted continuous data on the x axis.
In this case we have categorical data.
So class is a great case of the categorical data which is a good fit for a bar plot instead of a histogram
.
So start off with First Data anaesthetics lair.
When you go out and say P.L. and assign it Gigi plot I'll pass in our data which is DPF and then under
statics.
We'll go ahead and say X equals class.
So again class is that categorical column in our data frame.
And then for a bar plot for the geometry layer all you have to say is Jiya underscore bar.
Let's go ahead and assign that.
Actually this is going to print that out and see what we get.
So if I run that source.
Now we can see I'm going to zoom in on this.
You can get a nice bar plot.
So again the difference between a bar plot and a histogram on the y axis they're both showing eight
counts.
How many times that specific thing occurred there on the x axis for a bar plot.
You're using categorical data instead of continuous data.
So for the histogram we have a continuous data such as the weights of a car or the mpg of a car.
And in this case we have class data which is going to be is it a two seater car a compact car or a mid-sized
car etc..
So that's the difference in a bar play and a histogram.
And that's also denoted by the fact that there are spaces between each of these bars versus a histogram
.
You had no spaces and just continuous bends.
All right.
So that's the basics of a bar plot.
Let's go ahead and keep adding onto the interesting thing we can do for bar plot is use the bar values
to add a third level of data.
So for instance we see here that we have a D R V or dry column in our data frame the drive column has
three unique values.
It has f r and the number 4.
And what that means is is it a four wheel drive car a front wheel drive car or a rear wheel drive car
.
And what I can actually do is color these bars based off of the drive column.
So let's go ahead and think about this.
Usually if I'm just going to make a normal color for my plots or was it something like color blue run
the source here and notice I get a blue outline it's a little hard to tell but I could say something
like fill to fill these in as blue as well and then I get my blue bar plots.
In this case I actually want to create this fill instead of creating the fill by some sort of just general
term.
I want to actually pass the fill as Diary of the column.
So again when we're defining things like fill a color shape or size by another column in our data frame
we end up doing is passing abs into our geometry call.
In this case I'm going to go ahead and say Phil is equal to the RV column and this will kind of automatically
create a stacked bar plot for us.
So we're going to run this.
And there we have it.
So if we go in and zoom in on this we notice we have an auto stacked bar plot.
And basically what this is showing is again we have the number of counts and the class of each car so
different groups but by color we can determine the number of counts her drive type.
So for instance two seater cars are all rear wheel drives versus pickup cars or all four wheel drive
and that kind of makes sense your pickup trucks usually have four wheel drives and your two seater cars
are usually rear wheel drives.
And then we have a combination of other types of drives for the different cars with minivan being exclusively
front wheel drive.
OK.
There's a special position argument.
You can add with bar plots in order to show how we actually want to fill these sort of stacked bar plots
.
This argument goes outside this A-S but still inside the geometry layer and it's position.
So it's a position adjustment in the bar plot setting.
So I can say one of these terms is dodge and these are the kind of arguments they'll have to either
reference the documentation by searching here and help for gambar.
So if we did that it could say Geum bar.
Click on it.
It would take us to the documentation and it would tell us details about the kind of aesthetics we can
add and some examples et cetera.
So it's nice about all these geometry layers.
They have tons of examples in the documentation or we can also reference that cheat sheet.
I showed you earlier but in this case we have position equals dodge.
And what's going to allow us to do if I go ahead and run this.
It's going to show a different stacking.
So if we zoom in on this it shows these different bars stacked side to side instead of straight on top
of each other.
And this makes it easier to compare within a certain group the number of drives to each other.
So for instance this makes it easier to see that compact has about three times as many instances of
front wheel drive versus four wheel drive.
And this is just denoted by the height of the columns and the count measure on the y axis and that is
known as position equals dodge.
The other type of position argument we can choose for a bar plot is fill.
And if we run that what that's going to change about our bar plot is that instead of actually showing
the Count it will show the percentage of instances going to zoom on this.
Notice that count.
Now if you check it out goes from zero to 1 which is essentially just a percentage from 0 percent to
100 percent.
So we see that two seater is 100 percent.
Rear wheel drive pickups are a 100 percent four wheel drives.
We don't actually get the number count of instances of each of those drives.
Just get a percentage.
So this is a nice way to see percentages of each of these drive types which may be a little clearer
than the actual stacked bar plots when we didn't pass position as an argument so to show that one more
time I'll just go ahead and delete this position arguments run from the source.
Now we can see here this was what the original looked like.
So it's up to you to choose position really depends on what kind of story you're trying to tell or what
kind of information you're trying to convey with your bar plot.
All right.
That's it for the basics of a bar plot.
Hopefully you find this pretty easy now as far as just picking up a new geometry.
They're learning a couple of special arguments and then implementing it as a new layer for data and
aesthetics.
All right.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture